CSOC 2430: HW2
Overview:
Write a Java program for basic matrix operations. Your program should read in two matrices as inputs from two different text files and employ a singly/doubly linked list representation to store the two matrices internally and perform the following operations on them.

Add
Subtract
Multiply
Transpose
Determinant
Technical Requirement of Solution:
You are required to create your own singly or doubly linked list data structures from scratch. That means:

Your solution cannot use any existing collection framework or other library methods in Java for matrix based operations.
You should not use existing variants of Array, List, ArrayList, Vector for storing integers and two-dimensional arrays are strictly prohibited.
You are allowed to read the input file EXACTLY ONCE for all operations.
For determinant operation, you may augment your linked list node to retain row/column id and employ recursion to directly implement the standard method for computing determinant of a matrix. You are encouraged to design your own node representation (e.g., each node element has two pointers: one to its next right and another to its next bottom element that facilitate both horizontal and vertical traversals like one gets in a 2d array)
You will need to complete this assignment in Java.
Implementation Detail:
Inputs
The program takes 3 or 4 arguments. Assuming input matrix are in space deliminated files a.txt and b.txt, the format for each operation query will be:

For Addition: add a.txt b.txt output.txt
For Subtraction: sub a.txt b.txt output.txt
For Multiplication: mul a.txt b.txt output.txt
For Transpose: tra a.txt output.txt
For Determinant: det a.txt output.txt
For example:

$ java HW2 add a.txt b.txt output.txt
The input file can contains only integer (e.g. -3). However your output should be in floating point format with 1 decimal place (e.g. -3.0).

Click here to download sample input and output. The zip file contains 2 test set. For example, the first test case have input 1_a.txt and 1_b.txt. The corresponding addition output is 1_add.txt. The compile and run shell scripts that will be used for grading are also provided.

Run the program on Linux:
Create a directory on the Linux server, its name must be hw2

$ mkdir hw2
Change your current directory to the hw2

$ cd hw2
Run the shell script to compile the program

$ sh compile_java.sh
Evaluate your results with the true results

$ sh test_java.sh